Docs: Add docs for Passwordless Authentication Using Magic Links (#96877)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/passwordless/index.md

---
description: Learn how to configure passwordless authentication with magic links in Grafana
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Passwordless

> title: Configure passwordless authentication
> weight: 200
> ---
> 
> # Passwordless authentication with magic links

Reviewer: Titles and first headings are encouraged to match for SEO.

Most topics in this section seem to use the Configure prefix even though they don't often follow task topic structure.

```suggestion
title: Configure passwordless authentication with magic links
weight: 200
---

# Configure passwordless authentication with magic links
```

---
aliases:

>   - ../../../auth/grafana/

Reviewer: New pages don't need aliases.

```suggestion
```

description: Learn how to configure passwordless authentication with magic links in Grafana
labels:
  products:
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Passwordless auth
title: Configure passwordless authentication with magic links
weight: 200
---

> # Passwordless authentication with magic links

Reviewer: Titles and first headings are encouraged to match. The `menuTitle` can be just "Passwordless" since the table of contents already includes the "Configure authentication" context. I'm not sure about the "magic links" jargon. Is that an established term for this kind of passwordless authentication?

```suggestions
menuTitle: Passwordless
title: Configure passwordless authentication
weight: 200
---

# Configure passwordless authentication

Author: Yeah, I agree it's a bit strange, but "[Passwordless Authentication with Magic Links](https://auth0.com/docs/authenticate/passwordless/authentication-methods/email-magic-link)" is the standard way to refer to this type of authentication.

> The Passwordless integration in Grafana allows your Grafana users to authenticate with a magic link or one-time password (OTP) sent via email.

Reviewer: "Integration" has a special meaning in Grafana: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/

```suggestion
Passwordless authentication lets Grafana users authenticate with a magic link or one-time password (OTP) sent via email.
```

> {{% admonition type="note" %}}
> [Passwordless authentication]({{< relref "../passwordless" >}}) is available in [Grafana OSS]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/_index.md" >}}) and in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../../../introduction/grafana-enterprise" >}}).
> {{% /admonition %}}

Reviewer: I'm not sure this adds anything given that its already in the OSS documentation:

```suggestion
```

Author: Gotcha, I added that line to make it clear that this feature isn't available in Cloud, but I agree it's not necessary

## Enable passwordless authentication

> {{% admonition type="note" %}}
> Available in Experimental in Grafana 11.4 behind the `passwordlessMagicLinkAuthentication` feature toggle.
> {{% /admonition %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< docs/experimental product="passwordless authentication" featureFlag="passwordlessMagicLinkAuthentication" >}}
```

To enable passwordless authentication, use the following configuration:

```bash
[auth.passwordless]
enabled = true
```

## Code expiration

By default, the one-time password (OTP) sent to a user's email is valid for 20 minutes. Use the `code_expiration` option to change the duration that the OTP is valid.

```bash
[auth.passwordless]
enabled = true
code_expiration = 20m
```

## Enable SMTP server

> The SMTP server must be enabled so that Grafana can send emails. See [SMTP]({{< relref "../../../configure-grafana/_index.md" >}}) for details on configuring the SMTP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SMTP server must be enabled so that Grafana can send emails.
The following configuration enables the SMTP server.
For more information on configuring the SMTP server, refer to [SMTP](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#smtp).
